Added the Troubleshooting section (#10888)
ydb-platform/ydb: ydb/docs/en/core/dev/troubleshooting/performance/queries/transaction-lock-invalidation.md

# Transaction lock invalidation

> Each transaction in {{ ydb-short-name }} uses [optimistic locking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optimistic_concurrency_control) to ensure that no other transaction has modified the data it has read or changed. If the locks check reveals conflicting modifications, the committing transaction rolls back and must be restarted. In this case, {{ ydb-short-name }} returns a **transaction locks invalidated** error. Restarting a significant share of transactions can degrade your application's performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{ ydb-short-name }} uses [optimistic locking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optimistic_concurrency_control) to find conflicts with other transactions being executed. If the locks check on commit phase reveals conflicting modifications, the committing transaction rolls back and must be restarted. In this case, {{ ydb-short-name }} returns a **transaction locks invalidated** error. Restarting a significant share of transactions can degrade your application's performance.
```

{% note info %}

The YDB SDK provides a built-in mechanism for handling temporary failures. For more information, see [{#T}](../../../../reference/ydb-sdk/error_handling.md).

{% endnote %}

## Diagnostics

<!-- The include is added to allow partial overrides in overlays  -->
{% include notitle [#](_includes/transaction-lock-invalidation.md) %}

## Recommendations

The longer a transaction lasts, the higher the likelihood of encountering a **transaction locks invalidated** error.

> If possible, avoid interactive transactions. For example, try to avoid the following pattern:

Reviewer: Я бы добавил термин "interactive transaction" в глоссарий.

Author: Done

1. Select some data.
1. Process the selected data in the application.
1. Update some data in the database.
1. Commit the transaction in a separate query.

> A better approach is to use a single YQL query to select data, update data, and commit the transaction.

Reviewer: Вообще, это не единственный метод борьбы с TLI. Например, надо смотреть по каким ключам происходят конфликты. Может быть ключ, который все меняют, например total_balance. Тогда стоит изменить логику программы. Например, может помощь 100 строк баланса. А чтобы получить total_balance, надо будет просуммировать 100 строк. При правильном подходе это в раз сократит TLI на этом ключе. А вообще, я бы спросил snaury про список рекомендаций.

От интерактивных транзакций иногда в принципе не избавиться, они нужны.

Author: Обновил статью по рекомендациям snaury
